1) Select all the columns in the table.

2) Select all the columns in the table with a surname of Doyle.

3) Select all the columns in the table with a surname that contains the string le.

4) Select the firstname and surname of all the staff with a letter b in their firstname or in their surname.

5) Select the firstname, surname and salary of the staff with a salary greater than 25000.

6) Count (using sql), the number of staff that earn less than 25000.

7) Count the number of staff that earn greater than 20000 but less than 25000.

8) Select the firstname and surname of all staff but using the 'as' keyword translate the column titles to Swedish ie. fornamn, efternamn.   

9) Select a table that has three columns and one row containing the minimum, maximum and average salary of all the staff.

10) Select everything from the table, use the order by keywords to sort the table alphabetically by surname.

11) Reverse the order of the selection.

12) Now order the selection first by firstname and then by surname.

13) Use the limit keyword to return the first 10 members of staff.

14) Use the limit keyword to return only the rows 10 to 20 from the table.

15) Use the limit keyword to return only the rows 20 to 30.

Advanced
16) Select only the year from the dob column for all floggit staff.

17) Using the concat function, combine the columns street_address, town and postcode to one column. Separate the combined columns with a comma.

18) Select all the fields and add a column age where you calculate the age of the staff based on the current date CURRENT_TIMESTAMP. 

19) Use count and group by on the above select statement to calculate the number of people for each age.

20) Calculate the average salary for each age group.

21) Use a nested select statement to return the firstname and surname of the staff that has the highest salary.

22) Use a nested select statement to return the firstname, surname and how much their salary differs from the average salary. Sort the table by this new column.